In this lesson we're gonna put everything that we've learned together and build a quick and dirty property
valuation tool for Boston using our existing data set.
And this means that we're going to apply all the concepts that we've discussed previously but also it
gives us a chance to expand our knowledge of Python programming techniques.
In fact we're going to package our Boston property valuation tool as a Python module that you can then
import into any other notebook just as we've been importing say pandas or NUM Pi.
And also we're going to cover how to write Python functions that have default values for arguments.
And we're going to cover how we can include helpful documentation in our Python code as well.
So how will this tool work.
How will it find a price for a property.
Well it will make use of our existing model.
Here we get the theta values from our regression and then all we need to do is plug in custom values
for all the features like our m n o x else that chars and so on.
And once we've done that we have our y hat for a property that is not in the dataset.
So that's pretty simple right now.
Of course there are certain limitations of the data set that we've been using and we're gonna have to
work around these limitations.
For starters we don't have a column with the location of the homes to assist us in pricing homes depending
on an area.
Also if you are searching for properties online you're not going to be able to input some pieces of
information that are just just very very abstract like nobody is really going to know what the correct
value for.
That is in the area that they're looking to buy a home in or what the proportion of non retail business
acres are.
Which was the Indus feature in our model.
In other words we'll be working around these limitations and also we'll be making some generous assumptions
but it's all in good fun and we can learn a few things while doing this as well.
So let's get started writing some code in Jupiter notebook.
Let's create a new Python 3 notebook to hold our code for our valuation tool.
I'm going to call this notebook zero for valuation tool and then I'm going to get started with our import
statements.
So we're gonna need a couple of things.
We're gonna need from ASCII learn dot datasets import load underscore Boston we're gonna need her psyche
learns regression capability so that's from S.K. learn dot linear the school model import linear regression
from SDK learn dot matrix import mean on a school squared and a school error and then we're gonna import
pandas as PD we're gonna import name pi as an P..
These are all the import statements that we need for now.
Let me shift enter now when add a comment in the next cell and it's gonna read gather data.
It's time to create our target and our features.
If you recall we can grab our data set by calling the load Boston function to store our data set in
a variable called Boston underscore data set and that's going to be equal to the return value from load
on the call Boston.
Now let me create a data frame when I say data is equal to PD dot data frame and in the parentheses
I'm going to set the data of this data frame equal to Boston underscore data set dot data.
This if you recall is not a data frame which is why we're extracting the pieces of information that
we need namely our features data by using that data attribute on the Boston data set object our data
frame should also have some columns and these columns have names so columns is gonna be equal to Boston
on the school data set don't feature on the school names.
I think this is all a little bit of review but we're just going to convert our data into a format that
we need.
So how does our data frame look like at the moment data dot head.
Well show us the first five rows.
So that's fair enough.
We've got a data frame with all the features but we're only gonna use a subset of them so features is
gonna be equal to a new data frame.
So it's gonna be data.
Don't drop and then in the parentheses.
Gonna have a list of things we want to drop we want to drop in this and we want to drop H.
Both of these are columns some would say axis is equal to 1.
Let's take a look at what the first five rows of our features data set looks like we should be missing
this column here and we should be missing this column here features thought ahead will show us just
that brilliant.
This is what we've had before.
And let me delete this line and work out our prices.
We're gonna be working with law prices so I'll create a variable called log and a scope prices set that
equal to end p dot log.
Boston on the score data set dot target.
Let's take a look at what this variable looks like so long on the script prices is an array with five
hundred and six rows.
We can see this by saying log on a score.
Prices don't shape this confirms that we need have an array with five hundred and six rows but this
array is flat.
It's just one dimensional.
In contrast the shape of our features data frame is five hundred six point eleven.
So I'm planning to work with prices that are two dimensional so five hundred six by one.
I'm going to get there by converting our log prices into a data frame so I'll say Target is equal to
PD Panda's not data frame parentheses.
Log on to school prices.
Comment columns is equal to scrub brackets.
Single quotes price all caps.
Here we go.
Now if I say Target don't shape.
Let's see what we get.
Five hundred and six by one.
Perfect.
Now as we've said in the introduction if we want to get an estimate for the value of a property we basically
have to create something that looks like another row of data something that's structured exactly the
way the features data frame is structured.
So one row and eleven columns with a value for each column.
How could we do this.
How say we create a variable called property underscore stance so that equal to an empty ending array
from num.
And p dot and the array and we want that array to be 1 row by 11 columns.
So we'll see.
Shape is equal to parentheses one comma Eleven.
Okay so now we have an empty array.
Now what we can do is give a value for every single column so we can write something like property on
the school stats and then access the very very first column.
So that'll be in row number 0.
So the first row and the first column column numbers 0.
So square brackets 0 square brackets 0 and I can set that to a very particular value so I can set that
to say zero point zero two.
This is now my crime per capita.
Let's see what this looks like.
Property under school stats shift into.
Now show us something like this.
This is scientific notation.
Yeah.
So zero point zero two will be two to the power of ten to the minus two.
And these other values are ten to the power of minus three hundred and fourteen.
This looks really strange but what you're looking at is pretty much equal to zero if I change this value
here to say eighty three night shift enter then you'll see the array displayed like that you have eighty
three and then 0 0 0 0 0 0 right.
So I know this might seem confusing but before we were looking at the output in scientific notation
here we're looking at it more normally now a reasonable thing to ask is How do you know that this very
first column here is the crime column.
Yeah so this value here.
How do I know that this should be around zero point zero two.
Yeah well the answer is is that our property stats variable are one by one array will have the same
structure has our features data frame so features thought ahead.
If you recall will show us that the first column is crime.
The second column are the zones.
The third column is the Charles River dummy variable.
So one thing that we might do right.
One thing that we might find helpful is if we give these different indices a name.
So if we want to get the value of our second column and our third column we could do it like this.
I could copy this paste it twice change the second zero here and property starts to 1.
This would be novel The Zone and if I want the zone to be equal to say 15 then I can do it like this
and if I want the Charles River dummy variable to be equal to say 1 that I would have to pick index
2 and set that equal to 1.
You get the idea right.
So property starts now looks like so we've got crime we've got our CNN feature and we have our Charles
River dummy variable.
Now personally I find accessing these indices by number very very confusing because I'm going to come
back in a week's time and I'm not going to remember that crime is at zero or Z N is at 1 and Charles
River is at 2.
I only know that because I've worked with the state asset and I'm looking at my features data frame
below.
So one thing that might be quite handy is if we give these numbers names right.
So I can come up here and say crime on the score index Ida X is equal to zero and I can say Z N on the
score Ida X is equal to 1 and chars on the score.
Ida X is equal to 2.
And so on.
Now I can come in here instead of having a zero there I'll say crime and a score Ida X instead of having
a one here I'll say Z N on a school I.D. X and so on.
Right.
Charles underscore Ida x.
In other words this is a technique for giving certain hard values a descriptive name that way when you're
using them in your code later on it's a little more clear a little easier to read.
Since we're not really going to change these values here I've written them in all caps and separated
them within on the school.
Now I'm going to add two more named indices here.
The first one is going to reach for the number of rooms.
So R.M. ADX and that's in row number four.
And the next one is T ratio underscore Ida X and that's in row number eight scrolling down you can verify
this.
One two three four five six seven eight.
Four Piti ratio.
Berlin's.
Now remember how this property stats array is empty at the moment.
It's got zeros for all of these values and it's got three of these values defined.
Now to be honest we're not going to be customizing all these values right because something like crime
per capita is quite hard to know or the acres of industrial land in a particular area.
It's also really hard to know if we're gonna make some assumptions.
In other words for the property that we're looking at we're just gonna go with the average for all of
Boston for now at least to get the average.
We can simply grab it from our features data frame so features square brackets C R I M in single quotes
dot mean well give us the average and I can of course take this I can do the same thing for our zones.
So Z N dot mean and I could do the same thing for Charles River Charles that mean and I could do the
same thing for all the other eleven features.
Now what would this look like at the moment.
If I refresh I can see this is the average crime per capita.
This is the average hourly for the Z end index and this is the average value for Charles River.
I'm going to stop copy pasting code and making this super repetitive.
Instead I'm going to grab the mean value for all the features at the same time.
Check it out features don't mean parentheses.
Well give me all the mean values all the average values for all the features.
My goal is to populate our property stats with all these values our property stats is an end array at
the moment.
But what is this.
Let's take a look at what this is.
Type parentheses features dot mean shows us that this is a series.
It's a different kind of object.
So we have to do a little bit of conversion here.
We have to make the series object play nice with our array features that mean gives us a series.
But the series object has an attribute called values.
So competence pasted in and show you what this type is.
By adding dot values at the end we can see that the values attribute on a series will give us an NDE
array so array and array the two things should play nice because they're the same type of object.
But remember how this is a one by 11 array.
Let's double check what the dimensions all of this array here features dot mean dot values dot shape.
Well tell us exactly that.
This thing here it turns out is completely flat.
It's a one dimensional array.
Unlike our property stats array it is not two dimensional.
It means that we have to reshape this array from a factory with 11 values to a one by 11 array.
The easiest way to do this is to call the reed shape method.
So features don't mean dot values don't reshape parentheses one comma eleven will give us exactly how
hard it is.
We're looking for.
Check it out.
Brilliant so I'm going to take this here and I won't say property stats equal to features don't mean
dot values dot reshape one by eleven and this means I do not have to do any of this I can accommodate
all of these lines of code and save us all of this work because we now have a property with some starting
characteristics right.
So we have a property a single row eleven features they all have a value.
And in this case the value is just the average of all the five hundred six properties in the dataset.
In other words property stats is kind of our template for making our prediction.
This is the object that we're going to be working with.